[[{]]
## ausearch: query audit daemon raw logs data 

- also from STDIN


```
man ausearch
$ ausearch options  Options:
-a,--event ${eventID}
$ ausearch -m and -ui # return  events for requested type matching the user id given.

msg=audit(1116360555.329:2401771).
                     └─────────┴─ eventID. Same for all events triggered by the same syscall

 An exception is the -m  and -n options; multiple record types and nodes are allowed in a search which will return any matching node and record.

NOTE: each syscall "excursion" from user space into the kernel 
      and back into user space has one event ID that is unique 
      to allow correlation.

ausearch will group all related events based on this ID.

OPTIONS
 The event ID
--arch ${CPU_arch} # 
-c, --comm ${COMMAND_NAME}
--debug  # Write malformed events that are skipped to stderr.
--checkpoint ${CHECKPOINT_FILE} # checkpoint for successive invocations of ausearch
                                # Skip events already reported.
An auditd event is made up of one or more records.
 When processing events, ausearch defines events as either  complete  or  in-complete.
A complete  event is either a single record event or one whose event time occurred
2 seconds in the past compared to the event being currently processed.

              A checkpoint is achieved by recording the last completed event output along with the device number and inode of the file the last  completed
              event appeared in checkpoint-file. On a subsequent invocation, ausearch will load this checkpoint data and as it processes the log files, it
              will discard all complete events until it matches the checkpointed one. At this point, it will start outputting complete events.

              Should the file or the last checkpointed event not be found, one of a number of errors will result and ausearch  will  terminate.  See  EXIT
              STATUS for detail.

       --eoe-timeout seconds
              Set the end of event parsing timeout. See end_of_event_timeout in auditd.conf(5) for details. Note that setting this value will override any
              configured value found in /etc/auditd/auditd.conf.

       -e, --exit exit-code-or-errno
              Search for an event based on the given syscall exit code or errno.

       --escape option
              This option determines if the output is escaped to make the content safer for certain uses. The  options  are  raw  ,  tty  ,  shell  ,  and
              shell_quote.  Each mode includes the characters of the preceding mode and escapes more characters. That is to say shell includes all charac‐
              ters escaped by tty and adds more. tty is the default.

       --extra-keys
              When the format mode is csv, this option will add a final column with key information if its exists for the event. This would only occur  on
              SYSCALL records which were the result of triggering an audit rule that defines a key.

       --extra-labels
              When the format mode is csv, this option will add columns of information about subject and object labels when they exist.

       --extra-obj2
              When  the  format mode is csv, this option will add columns of information about a second object when it exists. It's rare that a second ob‐
              ject is part of a record. Some examples are when a file is renamed from one name to another or when a device is mounted to a path.

       --extra-time
              When the format mode is csv, this option will add columns of information about broken down time to make subsetting easier.

       -f, --file file-name
              Search for an event based on the given filename. The argument will match normal files as well as af_unix sockets.

       --format option
              Events that match the search criteria are formatted using this option. The supported formats are: raw, default, interpret,  csv,  and  text.
              The  raw  option is described under the --raw command line option. The default option is what you get when no formatting options are passed.
              It includes one line as a visual separator which indicates the time stamp and then the records of the event follow. The interpret option  is
              explained  under the -i command line option. The csv option outputs the results of the search as a normalized event in comma separated value
              (CSV) format suitable for import into analytical programs. The text option turns the event into an English sentence that is easier to under‐
              stand than other options, but it comes at the expense of loss of detail. In most cases this is perfectly fine since the original event still
              retains all the original information.

       -ga, --gid-all all-group-id
              Search for an event with either effective group ID or group ID matching the given group ID.

       -ge, --gid-effective effective-group-id
              Search for an event with the given effective group ID or group name.

       -gi, --gid group-id
              Search for an event with the given group ID or group name.

       -h, --help
              Help

       -hn, --host host-name
              Search for an event with the given host name. The hostname can be either a hostname, fully qualified domain name,  or  numeric  network  ad‐
              dress.  No  attempt  is  made  to resolve numeric addresses to domain names or aliases. This search typically correlates to the addr or host
              field of audit events. Also see the --node command which searches the node field.

       -i, --interpret
              Interpret numeric entities into text. For example, uid is converted to account name. If the audit logs are  unenriched,  the  conversion  is
              done  using the current resources of the machine where the search is being run. If you have renamed the accounts, or don't have the same ac‐
              counts on your machine, you could get misleading results. If the logs are enriched, it uses the supplemental data to do the conversion. This
              allows accurate log reporting even when run on a different machine than the original logs came from.

       -if, --input file-name | directory
              Use  the given file or directory instead of the logs. This is to aid analysis where the logs have been moved to another machine or only part
              of a log was saved. The path length is limited to 4064 bytes.

       --input-logs
              Use the log file location from auditd.conf as input for searching. This is needed if you are using ausearch from a cron job.

       --just-one
              Stop after emitting the first event that matches the search criteria.

       -k, --key key-string
              Search for an event based on the given key string.

       -l, --line-buffered
              Flush output on every line. Most useful when stdout is connected to a pipe and the default block buffering strategy is undesirable. May  im‐
              pose a performance penalty.

       -m, --message message-type | comma-sep-message-type-list
              Search  for  an  event matching the given message type. (Message types are also known as record types.) You may also enter a comma separated
              list of message types or multiple individual message types each with its own -m option. There is an ALL message type that doesn't  exist  in
              the  actual  logs.  It  allows you to get all messages in the system. The list of valid messages types is long. The program will display the
              list whenever no message type is passed with this parameter. The message type can be either text or numeric. If you enter a list, there  can
              be only commas and no spaces separating the list.

       -n, --node
              Search for events originating from a specific machine. Multiple nodes are allowed, and if any nodes match, the event is matched. This search
              uses the node field in audit events. Also see the --host command which search for events related to host information in the audit trail.

       -o, --object SE-Linux-context-string
              Search for event with tcontext (object) matching the string.

       -p, --pid process-id
              Search for an event matching the given process ID.

       -pp, --ppid parent-process-id
              Search for an event matching the given parent process ID.

       -r, --raw
              Output is completely unformatted. This is useful for extracting records to a file that can still be interpreted by audit tools or when  pip‐
              ing to other audit tools.

       -sc, --syscall syscall-name-or-value
              Search  for  an event matching the given syscall. You may either give the numeric syscall value or the syscall name. If you give the syscall
              name, it will use the syscall table for the machine that you are using.

       -se, --context SE-Linux-context-string
              Search for events with either scontext/subject or tcontext/object matching the given string.

       --session Login-Session-ID
              Search for events matching the given Login Session ID. This process attribute is set when a user logs in and can tie any process to  a  par‐
              ticular user login.

       -su, --subject SE-Linux-context-string
              Search for event with scontext (subject) matching the string.

       -sv, --success success-value
              Search for an event matching the given success value. Legal values are yes and no.

       -te, --end [end-date] [end-time]
              Search  for  events with time stamps equal to or before the given end time. The format of end time depends on your locale. You can check the
              format of your locale by running date '+%x'.  If the date is omitted, today is assumed. If the time is omitted, now is assumed. Use 24  hour
              clock  time rather than AM or PM to specify time. An example date using the en_US.utf8 locale is 09/03/2009. An example of time is 18:00:00.
              The date format accepted is influenced by the LC_TIME environmental variable.

              You may also use the word: now, recent, this-hour, boot, today, yesterday, this-week, week-ago, this-month, or this-year. Now means starting
              now.  Recent is 10 minutes ago. Boot means the time of day to the second when the system last booted. Today means now. Yesterday is 1 second
              after midnight the previous day. This-week means starting 1 second after midnight on day 0 of the week determined by your locale (see local‐
              time).  Week-ago means 1 second after midnight exactly 7 days ago. This-month means 1 second after midnight on day 1 of the month. This-year
              means the 1 second after midnight on the first day of the first month.

       -ts, --start [start-date] [start-time]
              Search for events with time stamps equal to or after the given start time. The format of start time depends on your locale.  You  can  check
              the format of your locale by running date '+%x'.  If the date is omitted, today is assumed. If the time is omitted, midnight is assumed. Use
              24 hour clock time rather than AM or PM to specify time. An example date using the en_US.utf8 locale is 09/03/2009. An example  of  time  is
              18:00:00. The date format accepted is influenced by the LC_TIME environmental variable.

              You  may  also use the word: now, recent, this-hour, boot, today, yesterday, this-week, week-ago, this-month, this-year, or checkpoint. Boot
              means the time of day to the second when the system last booted. Today means starting at 1 second after midnight. Recent is 10 minutes  ago.
              Yesterday  is  1 second after midnight the previous day. This-week means starting 1 second after midnight on day 0 of the week determined by
              your locale (see localtime). Week-ago means starting 1 second after midnight exactly 7 days ago. This-month means 1 second after midnight on
              day 1 of the month. This-year means the 1 second after midnight on the first day of the first month.

              checkpoint  means ausearch will use the timestamp found within a valid checkpoint file ignoring the recorded inode, device, serial, node and
              event type also found within a checkpoint file. Essentially, this is the recovery action should an invocation of ausearch with a  checkpoint
              option fail with an exit status of 10, 11 or 12. It could be used in a shell script something like:

                   ausearch --checkpoint /etc/audit/auditd_checkpoint.txt -i
                   _au_status=$?
                   if test ${_au_status} eq 10 -o ${_au_status} eq 11 -o ${_au_status} eq 12
                   then
                     ausearch --checkpoint /etc/audit/auditd_checkpoint.txt --start checkpoint -i
                   fi

       -tm, --terminal terminal
              Search for an event matching the given terminal value. Some daemons such as cron and atd use the daemon name for the terminal.

       -ua, --uid-all all-user-id
              Search for an event with either user ID, effective user ID, or login user ID (auid) matching the given user ID.

       -ue, --uid-effective effective-user-id
              Search for an event with the given effective user ID.

       -ui, --uid user-id
              Search for an event with the given user ID.

       -ul, --loginuid login-id
              Search  for  an  event  with the given login user ID. All entry point programs that are PAMified need to be configured with pam_loginuid re‐
              quired for the session for searching on loginuid (auid) to be accurate.

       -uu, --uuid guest-uuid
              Search for an event with the given guest UUID.

       -v, --version
              Print the version and exit

       -vm, --vm-name guest-name
              Search for an event with the given guest name.

       -w, --word
              String based matches must match the whole word. This category of matches include: filename, hostname, terminal, keys, and SE Linux context.

       -x, --executable executable
              Search for an event matching the given executable name.

EXIT STATUS
       0    if OK,

       1    if nothing found, or argument errors or minor file access/read errors,

       10   invalid checkpoint data found in checkpoint file,

       11   checkpoint processing error

       12   checkpoint event not found in matching log file

NOTE
       The boot time option is a convenience function and has limitations. The time it calculates is based on time now minus /proc/uptime. If  after  boot
       the  system clock has been adjusted, perhaps by ntp, then the calculation may be wrong. In that case you'll need to fully specify the time. You can
       check the time it would use by running:

       date -d "`cut -f1 -d. /proc/uptime` seconds ago"

EXAMPLES
       Search for a specific user:
       # ausearch --start today --loginuid john -i

       Check the SELinux log for any denials today
       # ausearch --start today -m avc -i

       Output logs in text format
       # ausearch --start today --format text

       Output TTY events interpreted and shell escaped
       # ausearch --start today -m TTY -i --escape shell_quote

- SEE ALSO
  auditd(8), auditd.conf(5), aureport(8), pam_loginuid(8).
```
[[}]]
